---
layout: post # As opposed to page or whatever
bg: 'trees.jpg' # Can be different per article
title: "Step one" # Page title, shows up on left pane and in archives
crawlertitle: "What about bob" # This goes into the browser titlebar
summary: "lol probably enough bobs" # This shows up on the left frame and on things like facebook posts
date: 2017-06-08 # Duh.
tags : ['blog'] # 'blog','links's # In quotes, separate by commas
slug: toomanybobs # This becomes the URL
author: "acsexton" # Obvs
categories: posts
---

So good, bad, and ugly are all getting immortalized here and I just ate 40 minutes finishing an assignment that takes any random assortment of letters and counts the number of times "bob" shows up in it.

Capital letters, punctuation, sensible sentences be damned, my solution couldn't be less elegant, but holy crap it feels really good to make something that works.

And as a bonus: I can only go up from here.

Next problem has an "If you've spent more than a few hours on this..." disclaimer, though, so I'm just gonna go ahead and [put my code here](https://github.com/acsexton/mitx/blob/master/PSET1-2.py) and let myself have a celebration whiskey while I enjoy the moment.

(And, for the record, I am pushing all my terrible, terrible code to [my github](https://github.com/acsexton), so if you want to follow the backend of how things are going, that's the way! Here's hoping flipping through that when I'm in the gutters with later projects will turn out to be a programming equivalent to drowning depression in a couple beers while laughing at my highschool poetry.)

## OH and

Also, I got my acceptance letter this week, so I am officially a tentative returning student for the Computer Science program at WCU starting Spring 2018.

And as everyone knows, administrative validation by committee is the only way we get to know what's real.

Let's hope I can do a bit more than count some bobs by the time January rolls around.

Cheers!

<iframe src="https://giphy.com/embed/26xBB14wYhGaY2SrK" width="480" height="269" frameBorder="0" class="giphy-embed" allowFullScreen></iframe><p><a href="https://giphy.com/gifs/fourrosesbourbon-26xBB14wYhGaY2SrK">via GIPHY</a></p>
