---
layout: post # As opposed to page or whatever
bg: 'trees.jpg' # Can be different per article
title: "Reboot" # Page title, shows up on left pane and in archives
crawlertitle: "Reboot" # This goes into the browser titlebar
summary: "lol it's fine, not like people need jobs anyway" # This shows up on the left frame and on things like facebook posts
date: 2017-06-01 # Duh.
tags : ['blog'] # 'blog','links's # In quotes, separate by commas
slug: reboot # This becomes the URL
author: "acsexton" # Obvs
categories: posts # I think similar to tags, shows up in RSS but nowhere else?
---

You get a job, you do the budget, and you start saving a couple months' worth of pay in the *off chance* you're one day told you can't come back tomorrow.

Then, five years later, HR calls you to an orientation classroom and tells you in front of your manager and director that corporate is absorbing your responsibilities, here is your severance package and unemployment info could you please return for your personal stuff at 6pm tonight we don't want things to be *awkward*.

# Uh, I mean, I guess that's cool

You nod and smile, thank them for support during the good run and shake hands while you wonder if this means you need to get a haircut now and what your mom will say.

You're escorted back to your office, grab your bag, try not to notice how much the one work buddy still in the building is avoiding eye contact. Helpdesk's already grabbed old reliable ITLaptop05, and that rings sharp in your mind but, sure, makes sense. You drive slow home, your car lugging a little because you're not in a great headspace and forgot to shift back into third before this hill.

You tell your partner, you have a couple drinks, you turn on a movie you can't really focus on and it's *then* you remember you hadn't logged out of anything before they took that laptop, so there's that. You spend the rest of the movie changing your passwords and refreshing the same "recent activity" Google page five, six, seven times just to make sure nothing's auto-logging in or anything... You decide you're being paranoid and it's 11:30pm, so you blink and stare at the TV and wait for day zero of being *"in-between jobs"* to be over.

You try to convince yourself it's a kind of summer vacation.

It kind of works.

You kind of sleep.

# Day One

You never noticed how much your morning routine relied on needing to be somewhere, so there's a good bit of staring at the wall before climbing out of bed. A couple hours of nothing later, you're poking through an old money-budget-saving spreadsheet. You've forgotten 90% of whatever shorthand you thought you'd never need again after you got that first job, but struggle through it. You run your balances, rack your brain for any upcoming credit card posts, regret some recent extravagances, and finally exhale six hours later when you convince yourself you'd been doing the responsible thing and saved yourself into a little time to breathe.

So you do.

You resume activity sometime later, unsure if you spent the last hour staring at a wall or dozing -- not that it matters -- before you, with a a determined nod, search for jobhunt emails as old as your nephew, drag yourself to LinkedIn, and you do your best to "endorse" a couple friends hoping they'll do the same.

You start alternating between searching for more job postings and trying to will yourself to stop staring at new spots on the walls. You find a few openings listing way more responsibilities than yours needed while offering a bit less money than yours did. You decide to be honest with yourself: even without a job you probably won't make the time to paint over the spots. So, simultaneously insecure of your knowledge and prideful over your position, you grin and bear the limbo while sweating out resume edits, churning cover letters that -- "hey, does this sentence make me seem too needy? Or maybe passive?" Your cat provides no useful feedback.

Another week passes. Riding home from a good evening out with friends, you realize exactly how to solve a problem you were having implementing one of your main work projects. It lights up just the right series of now smoothly lubricated neurons and that's when it **really** hits you:

You're done there. You'll never go back to that desk, pick up that phone, log into that PC, attend any of those calls, drop by any of those meetings... That project you drove so hard for so long is no longer yours. The "money is freedom" part of you starts to ask if you should even have gone out tonight and shouldn't you have heard from that one company by now and God I bet your cover letter made you sound like an idiot you should have listened to your cat, and...

Bit by bit, your life starts to feel like it will soon belong more to this gap than to you.

But in tech, before you go thinking something is broken, you know you should always restart.

So, 

# Reboot.

> Why were you there in the first place?

To put it lightly, despite an affinity for finding patterns and solving problems, I "was not strong" in math in highschool. So I picked up a degree in Philosophy with a minor in English while continuing to repair computers. After a short internship and a quick eight months of unemployment, I fell back on my computer repair hobby into IT support at the local hospital.

> Hobby. Why?

Computers make sense to me, and people kinda do too. Dogs love to be smart. Cats love to be smart. But people just want things to be *easy* and we'll put in plenty of hours doing a dumb thing if we think it's even remotely interesting. I guess was lucky that I found computers remotely interesting, and I won't act like I didn't do plenty of dumb stuff to get as good with them as I am.

> Like what?

I am no stranger to banging on a keyboard at 3:30am willing git to let me sync except I'd cloned into what I'd later realize was a symlink to my Dropbox which had confused my repo...

So. 

I want to, at least a little, help break down the barrier of entry to a more open world of information, making ideas and data available to those who, just a few years ago, may not have been able to get any of it. I want to learn to script, to automate, to get a computer to not just understand but maybe even start to intuit meaning from people who struggle to get that meaning out. 

I want to help make computers accessible and applications open and easy, and I want to give a kid like I was, someone who grew up confused by plenty of things, the opportunity to feel what feeling smart for once feels like.

# Then do that.

So I started the research.

I Googled the extremely sensible

`things wish know knew computer science major graduate`

and opened every link on the first three pages of results. The next couple of days were full of Quora, Stack Exchange, Reddit, blogs, school news, articles, the links in those articles, the book and article recommendations from *those*... I could see more and more that the things I get about people and the things I know about computers might blend somewhere if I try hard enough.

I put together a timeline with goals and deadlines, dredged a non-graphing TI-36X up from the black pits of the *are-you-sure-you-don't-mean-to-buy-a-ti-83* internet, and signed up for some courses to make up for the fact that I never paid any attention in math and never learned more than the absolute basics about code. 

> The courses:
* [Arizona State University MAT117: College Algebra and Problem Solving](https://www.edx.org/course/college-algebra-problem-solving-asux-mat117x)
* [MITx: 6.00.1x Introduction to Computer Science and Programming Using Python](https://www.edx.org/course/introduction-computer-science-mitx-6-00-1x-10)
* [Arizona State University MAT170: Precalculus](https://www.edx.org/course/precalculus-asux-mat170x)

And I got to work.

# Moving Forward #

Halfway through the college algebra course, I saw math (probably) wouldn't try and kill me (yet). I finally conceded I might have some focus and discipline I didn't have my first time around, so I decided it was safe to send in my application to start Computer Science as a returning student in Spring 2018.

Meantime I'll keep on keeping on.

Review, practice, study, focus on living cheap and easy, and I'll hit the ground running in January as a full-time student once again. Hopefully I'll be skilled enough to succeed in Calc I soon and know enough in code to truck through till graduation with a decent amount of extracurricular projects under my belt, powering that good ol' personal narrative.

I have plenty of resources for independent study and personal project ideas to practice on (which I'll document here),  incredibly supportive friends and colleagues in the industry, and the benefit of 5 years experience (everyone's favorite entry level pre-requisite) in healthcare IT at an analyst level.

Good thoughts. Good things.

It'll be interesting to see how it all turns out, but for now, things seem to make sense and I can keep breathing easy-ish. It feels right now like I'm on track to do something better, to take my passions for interaction and sharing information and people and computers, bundle 'em all together, ready to engage whatever's next.

This feels good and, more importantly, this feels right.

So let's go.
