---
layout: post # As opposed to page or whatever
bg: 'trees.jpg' # Can be different per article
title: "Step one" # Page title, shows up on left pane and in archives
crawlertitle: "What about bob" # This goes into the browser titlebar
summary: "lol probably enough bobs" # This shows up on the left frame and on things like facebook posts
date: 2017-06-07 # Duh.
tags : ['blog'] # 'blog','links's # In quotes, separate by commas
slug: toomanybobs # This becomes the URL
author: "acsexton" # Obvs
categories: posts
---

I'm gonna do good bad and ugly here and it doesn't get much uglier than one's first attempt at anything. Just ate 40 minutes writing a program that takes some letters and stuff and counts the number of times "bob" shows up in it. (This was an assigned task, I assure you.)

Capital letters, punctuation, sensible sentences be damned, right now we're just finding how many "bob"s are in a group of characters. Inefficient and messy but it works and I can only go up from here. 

Next problem has an "If you've spent more than a few hours on this..." disclaimer, so I, uh, I'm just gonna go ahead and [put my awful code here](https://github.com/acsexton/mitx/blob/master/PSET1-2.py) and have a celebration whiskey while I enjoy the moment.

(And, oh yes, I am pushing all my terrible, terrible code to my github. When I wonder if I've gotten better at writing, I down a couple beers and look back at my highschool poetry. This will be a solid equivalent when I'm struggling through my final projects.)

## OH and

Also, I got my acceptance letter! I am officially a tentative returning student for the Computer Science program at WCU starting Spring 2018, my journey having been validated by committee at an administrative level.

And, as everyone knows, administrative validation by committee is how we know what's real.

Let's hope I can do a bit more than count some bobs by the time January rolls around.

Cheers.

<iframe src="https://giphy.com/embed/26xBB14wYhGaY2SrK" width="480" height="269" frameBorder="0" class="giphy-embed" allowFullScreen></iframe><p><a href="https://giphy.com/gifs/fourrosesbourbon-26xBB14wYhGaY2SrK">via GIPHY</a></p>
