---
layout: post # As opposed to page or whatever
bg: 'trees.jpg' # Can be different per article
title: 2017-06-12-guessing.md
crawlertitle: "browsertitle here" # This goes into the browser titlebar
summary: "pun or something" # This shows up on the left frame and on things like facebook posts
date: 2017-06-01 # Duh.
tags : ['blog'] # 'blog','links's # In quotes, separate by commas
slug: urltext # This becomes the URL
author: "acsexton" # Obvs
categories: posts # I think similar to tags, shows up in RSS but nowhere else?
---

I built a program that guesses a number.

It's almost like a game.

I keep coming up with new numbers and having it guess and man.

Damn satisfying.

Also. Recursion.
or
Let me tell you about that time I spent six hours trying to understand a single function and only did because my friend curses a lot and tells good stories.

Me:
When running the basic factorial recursive function:

def f(n): 
  if n == 1:
      return 2
  else: 
      return n*f(n-1)
if I try something like

>> a = f(3)
The computer sort of 'thinks' the following:

3 is not 1
so return 3*f(2)
2 is not 1
so return 2*f(1)
1 is 1
so return 1 as f(1)
It then stops where it does, "n == 1: return 1", that is the first time the response has been something besides a formula that requires more computation

this then returns 2*1 as f(2)
which then returns 3*2*1 as f(3)
this makes a = 6

if this was modified and instead the line was

  if n == 1: return 2
when it got to that point it would return 2 as f(1) which would then be evaluated

2 as f(1)
2*2 as f(2)
2*2*3 as f(3)
giving a = 12

So here's his explanation:

	Anyway
	You got a family tree, right
	And we're starting with like, your grandpa
	And I go up to him and ask
	"How many people are in your family?"
	Now, you may or may not have a big-ass motherfucking family
	And your grandpa may or may not be senile
	But just run with me here
	So your grandpa goes "Fuck if I know, but that's a good question. Let's figure that out."
	So he goes to his few kids and asks each of them "Hey, how many people in your family?"
	They go "Well shit, I'm not sure, I've got kids too. I'll have to ask them."(edited)
	So your parents, and all the appropriate siblings all run around and ask you guys "Hey, how many people in your family?"
	So you look and go "Well shit, I ain't got no kids yet. Just me."
	And your parent goes "Well, you're 1. And I'm 1. HEY GRANDPA, THERE'S TWO OF US."
	And your grandpa goes "Alright, you're 2. And my other kid is 4. And this last guy is 3. So there's 9 people descended from me."

	```python
	def countFamily(person):
	    if number of kids person has == 0:
	        return 1
	    else
	        count = 1 // to count me
	        for (child = each child of person)
	            count = count + countFamily(child)
	        return count

	print countFamily(grandpa)
	```

	recursion is really handy for working with trees of things
	and I have no idea if that makes any goddamn sense
	but there ya go


